So, the reason this works, I think,
is because like any new thing, right?
When you're asking folks to change,
there's gonna be sticky points up front.
So, right?
So,
the first few folks that come on board,
it's gonna be hard.
You're gonna have to do some handholding,
you're gonna have to get in the weeds or
maybe even gonna sit with them and
help them figure out some of
those integration points.
Over time, you start to recognize
the patterns and the challenges and
then you start to solve those
problems more efficiently.
Now it's much easier for them to come on.
It takes you less time and
you can focus on supporting your
current subscribers better.
So, it just gives you the time and
space available,
frees up your space to do
the other important tasks here.
So, I wanna talk with you a little
bit about how that impacts
the journey of subscriber's
adoption over time.
So, as you can tell by now,
I'm a really visual thinker.
[LAUGH] So, none of these concepts make
sense to me until I get the napkin and
pencil out and start sketching stuff.
And that's just the way my brain works.
In this case, I was talking
with a handful of subscribers.
Most of my conversations to be fair have
been with people of design system teams,
but I've taken some time
over the last year or so
to start having more conversations with
the people who we we're asking to use
the systems we're building and
I'm learning a ton of stuff from them.
[LAUGH] And so, I've just started
asking them this question about,
what is the journey like
to become a subscriber And
early in stage two they describe it kind
of like this, if we're plotting out say
their excitement versus their
frustration maybe on the Y and
we're thinking about the time and
effort across time over the X axis here.
This is kinda what they tell
me in their early stages like,
somebody did a good job of
selling something to them, right?
So early on, they're excited.
Okay, great.
This is gonna be amazing.
It's gonna save me time,
my work will be better.
All of this?
And then you'll notice this like
scary slope instantly down, right?
And that's because as soon as they start
getting into this and start actually
trying to put it into practice, there's
a lot of frustration that surfaces, right?
Especially early in stage two, when you
probably you just released your first
version, so
it's probably buggy in some ways, right?
You haven't actually gone through a lot
of these adoption processes yet, so
there's a lot of kinks
to work out there and
of course you're just asking them
to change the way they work.
And of course,
it takes a good amount of time here for
us to climb out of that
dip of frustration, right?
There's gotta be real value that we're
showing for them to actually get
back to being excited about the potential
value this thing can offer them.
So, throughout stage two, there's a way
to kind of think about how to change
this that actually helps you mature
through stage two in a really healthy way.
And what you're trying to do is
get to what I usually seeing
like a really healthy late
stage to adoption which is
something that looks
a little bit more like this.
So you've done a better job you can see,
early on you've done a really good job
of setting their expectations, right?
[LAUGH] Like,
you're being more realistic with them,
I think is maybe the the right
way to think about this.
So you've, instead of kind of going in
with that big pitch of saying like,
everything's gonna be amazing when you
use the system, you're going in and
you're saying to them,
you're setting expectations appropriately.
You're saying,
this is gonna take some work, but
it's an investment that's worth the time
because it's gonna get us to a place
where we can do better work together.
So that's kind of the shift in the
language around that initial conversation.
And then you've done a lot of work here
to move the frustration levels up.
This is all what I was talking about
earlier about making the system easy
to adopt.
And we're gonna talk in a moment
about defining adoption paths,
because that's one way.
If they can see the end of the light
in the tunnel for their adoption,
that makes all of this
stuff kinda worth it.
So the more clarity you can give them
around what it's gonna be like and
here's the steps you can take,
that actually makes this a lot
less frustrating for them.
It's not that the work is different,
it's just their experience compared to
the expectations you set is more aligned.
And then of course, the result of those
two changes is that, this point where
they move from being frustrated
to being excited is a lot sooner,
which is great, right?
They're happier, sooner.
So really some clarity and forethought
is really gonna help this, right?
It's going to help in moving that that
starting point lower that trough up.
And then the combination of those things
kind of brings their their excitement
level a little sooner in the process.
So let's talk about ways
to kind of do these things.
Well, we spent some time in stage
one thinking about our adoption or
our subscriber groups, right?
So now the second part of this if we're
gonna start to actually track adoption
in stage two is that we have to
define what parts, pieces and
parts of the system
are adoptable on their own.
Now, part of the intent with
the anatomy of a design system model is
that it is intended to be adopt,
the way that's broken down is that
these layers create things that
are adoptable in and of themselves.
So, in other words it's possible for
a subscriber to just use the foundational
concepts to not use any of your assets but
just to understand your guidelines
around color and actually create something
that aligns perfectly whether or
not they use your specific tokens or
your core systems to do that, right?
So, I can adopt at a foundational level,
that's a valid adoption, right?
Now, you don't necessarily have to use
my model, but what I want you to do is,
however you've defined your system,
is think about what are the pieces and
parts that can be adopted, okay?
And then this one seems ridiculous, but
you actually have to define
what adoption means.
And like this seems like I can't tell you
how many articles I've read where like
the first sentence of the article is,
we launched our design system a year
ago and we have 80% adoption.
And I stop at that point and
I just say to myself, like,
80% adoption,
like what the heck does that even mean?
That literally means nothing to me.
So I don't understand how anybody
could even use that statement.
And let me give you just a few statements
to help you understand why there's so
much more nuance to this.
So here's just a few situations you might
find yourself in, One of your subscribers
uses the grid and spacing core system from
your design system to handle layout in
their product's production code, but they
don't use your color or elevation systems.
So are they adopted?
Is that part of the 80% adoption?
One of your subscriber teams uses
everything that your design system offers,
but only in the sign-up
flow of their product.
So is that adoption?
The UX folks on one of your product
teams use the design system
to prototype and test.
That's great.
But the developers on that same product
team aren't using the engineering assets
that you also provide.
Is that adoption?
One of your subscriber teams uses
a version of the design system that's two
releases old.
How does that count, right?
The devs on one of your product teams
start with your design system components,
but they modify them to
fit a specific use case.
Is that adoption?
[LAUGH] So you get the point here, right?
There are so many ways, there are so
many nuances to this conversation.
So, what we have to do is actually give
your subscribers a path to follow.
And you dont have to only have one path,
but you gotta have something for
them to [INAUDIBLE] On to, and
so what we need to do is start
to think more about all this from
the perspective of your subscriber groups.
So what's the path that
they need to follow in
order to become a subscriber
at various tiers?
And the way to do that is to give them
tiers of adoption levels of adoption to
that they can use as targets.
And so here's an example
of just a very simple set.
And I'm not saying you should use this,
right?
Though, all of this stuff has to be
customized for your specific use cases but
here's an example where we might say
a level one adaption means you understand
and apply the foundations layer, right?
That simple.
And a level two means you're
using the core system assets for
layout type and color.
So it's another way to think about it.
We're saying hey, layout type and
color is gonna get us a long way there.
We've offered some really good systems for
you to put into practice in your features,
your products.
So after you've started
applying the foundations,
jump right into using these assets we've
built for you in your specific context.
Level three maybe.
Use all the parts of the fundamental
layers, that's the first three layers
that's just not components,
basically everything but the components.
Level four,
use all parts of the components
that are relevant to your product.
And then maybe we say level
five is more involved, right?
This is where we're getting you
to contribute back in some way.
So that's like a level five adoption.
So and again, I just want to reiterate,
I'm not telling you this should be
your roadmap for adoption, okay?
You'll have to do the work to understand
what makes the most sense based on
remember we discovered the right scope.
So the early versions of a design
system are all gonna look different.
So you need to look at that
scope that makes sense for you.
What is it that you're
actually offering folks?
And then you need to tell them, here's
a good path for you to come on board.
If those subscriber groups have
product owners or project managers or
whatever that role is, where there's
someone who's kind of leading the vision
or the direction of a specific product,
sit down with those folks.
They will help you understand the impact
of adoption for their product and
you can talk through what
layers are reasonable and
how these things can
build upon each other.